WASHINGTON — Donald Trump knew his “big lie” that the 2020 presidential election had been stolen from him was, in fact, a big lie, according to testimony the House committee investigating the Jan. 6, 2021, assault on the U.S. Capitol laid out at the public hearing Monday morning. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the California Democrat handling much of Monday’s questioning of witnesses, said the testimony of Trump’s own aides was clear. “On election night, he claimed even before the votes were counted that his loss was because of fraud,” she said. “Mr. Trump’s election fraud claims were false. Mr. Trump’s closest advisers knew it. Mr. Trump knew it.” Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien, who had been scheduled to testify in person Monday, withdrew at the last minute when his wife went into labor and Stepien went to join her. In a video clip of Stepien’s taped deposition, Stepien said he and other top campaign aides recommended that Trump say that “votes were still being counted, that it was too early to tell, it was too early to call the race.” But Trump refused to accept that advice, he told investigators. “He thought I was wrong,” Stepien said. “He told me so ― that he was going to go in a different direction.” Among the witnesses appearing was Chris Stirewalt, the Fox News journalist who was pushed out of his job after his team correctly called Arizona for Democrat Joe Biden on election night. Stirewalt said Trump’s chance of winning the presidency was “none” after election night was over and votes continued to come in favoring Biden. “Remember, he needed three of these states to change. And in order to do that ― you’re better off to play the Powerball,” he said. At the committee’s first public hearing on Thursday, the panel laid out an overview of its initial findings that Trump knew he had lost the election but fought to remain in power anyway, culminating with the violent attack on the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. The committee also revealed new footage of that attack, designed to intimidate then-Vice President Mike Pence and lawmakers into declaring Trump the winner notwithstanding the election results. Trump, despite losing the election by 7 million votes nationally and 306-232 in the Electoral College, became the first president in more than two centuries of elections to refuse to hand over power peacefully. He spurred on the Jan. 6 Capitol riot — a last-ditch attempt to remain in office — which killed five, including one police officer, injured another 140 officers and led to four police suicides. Nevertheless, Trump remains the dominant figure in the Republican Party and is openly speaking about running for the presidency again in 2024. In statements on his personal social media platform, Trump has continued to lie about the election and the Jan. 6 committee’s work, calling it a “hoax” similar to previous investigations into his 2016 campaign’s acceptance of Russian assistance and his attempted extortion of Ukraine into helping his 2020 campaign.