Olivia Rodrigo did not hold back during her Saturday set at England’s Glastonbury Festival, unleashing on the U.S. Supreme Court justices who joined in overturning Roe v. Wade this week. “I’m devastated and terrified,” the “Driver’s License” singer told the crowd, which The Guardian reported contained thousands of people. “So many women and so many girls are going to die because of this.” Rodrigo then introduced the next song: “Fuck You” by Lily Allen, who appeared onstage with her. “I wanted to dedicate this next song to the five members of the Supreme Court who have showed us that at the end of the day, they truly don’t give a shit about freedom,” Rodrigo said to wild cheers. “The song goes out to the justices: Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas, Neil Gorsuch, Amy Coney Barrett, Brett Kavanaugh. We hate you.” While Rodrigo spoke, Allen could be seen giving two middle fingers. The two then launched into an energetic rendition of Allen’s 2009 hit, which includes the lyrics, “Fuck you, fuck you very, very much / ’Cause we hate what you do / And we hate your whole crew.” Listen to Rodrigo’s pre-song speech here and watch part of their duet here. Rodrigo, a 19-year-old Grammy winner, has been a vocal supporter of abortion rights. Last month, she told fans in Washington, D.C., she was “heartbroken” after seeing a leaked copy of a Supreme Court draft ruling on overturning Roe v. Wade. “What a woman does with her body should never be in the hands of politicians,” she said at the time. “I hope we can use our voices to protect our right to have a safe abortion, which is a right that so many people before us have worked so hard to get.” More on the Supreme Court abortion ruling:  Supreme Court strikes down Roe v. Wade, dismantling decades-old precedent Roe overturned: The fight begins Abortion is now illegal in these states Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: “We have to fill the streets” Clarence Thomas: Cases protecting gay marriage and contraception should be next Republicans make it clear they want to ban abortion nationwide  Here’s how the world is reacting to the end of Roe Pro-abortion rights protesters attacked and threatened Donations, chants and calls for change: Celebrities react to end of Roe SCOTUS decision threatens right to interracial marriage, experts warn