On Real Tok, we test out the latest TikTok product trends to help you make slightly more informed late-night impulse internet buys. You’re welcome. Morning, lunch or 2 a.m. after a night out, there’s no wrong time to eat homemade waffles. Of course, while you may always crave those warm, fluffy syrup vessels, you’re likely never in the mood to do all the preparing and cleanup. Cue the mini waffle maker. Like most things in 2022, I first saw this majestic beast on TikTok. In a community dubbed “Waffle Tok,” home chefs young and old were singing its praises, using this small machine to make all sorts of crispy snacks. They were definitely making individual waffles, from classics like chocolate chip and blueberry to more exciting ones like Funfetti cake waffles. But they were also making mini-waffle versions of every type of food: waffle tacos, waffle pizza, waffle buffalo chicken, waffle frittatas and even mini waffle-pressed store-bought frosted sugar cookies. As a lover of all-day breakfast and teenage stoner-level snacks, I needed to try one for myself. The mini waffle makers come in a bunch of styles of colors. You can get a heart-shaped one that makes heart-shaped waffles or one covered in pirate flag-like skulls and crossbones. I got the “aqua,” which looks like a cute 1950s kitchen appliance. The waffle griddle itself is four inches in diameter so so, too, will be your waffles. The appliance needs to be plugged in and gets a little hot while cooking, so just make sure you have a safe, open spot near an outlet in your kitchen workspace. After you plug the machine in, the blue light on top will go on to show it’s heating. The only real issue is that there’s no “on/off” switch or temperature control, so you need to be mindful of plugging and unplugging it and watching over your snack as it’s cooking. When the blue light goes off, you’re ready to rumble. Add your waffle batter or whatever other creative ingredients you can think of. A waffle should cook in about three or four minutes. As I said, there’s not a timer or temperature setting on the device (we’re talking about a $9 waffle maker here), so keep your eye on it while your food is cooking and make sure to unplug it the moment you’re done. If you don’t like your waffles super brown, you can set a timer for around two minutes to make sure they won’t overcook. If you’re cooking with raw meat or eggs, you should use a food thermometer to make sure everything is fully cooked before you start snacking.  Like others on TikTok, I’ve had the best time sticking all sorts of food in my mini waffle maker. I’ve made late-night quesadillas, crispy waffled mac and cheese with leftovers and even fried avocados. Every time, the machine only takes a few minutes to cook and leaves me with warm, crispy crunchy snacks.  Once the waffle maker cools off, it’s super easy to clean. (There are even TikToks about that.) You can wipe it down with a wet paper towel or sponge before storing it. Again, as this is a budget device, I recommend being gentle with it. Try not to drop it, soak it or pull too hard on the cord. Some reviews say these machines don’t stand the test of time, which frankly isn’t too surprising. I’m not banking on passing this $9 waffle machine to my great-grandchildren as a family heirloom in 80 years; I’m just trying to make some mini waffles and hand-held egg sammies.  For quick breakfasts on the go and fun late-night snacks, a mini waffle maker is 10/10. It heats up fast, cleans easily and can be used to make all sorts of hand-held delights. Get one for yourself! You won’t regret it.  HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Every item is independently selected by the HuffPost Shopping team. Prices and availability are subject to change. Promising reviews: “Perfect for singles. At first, I laughed thinking it was too small to really do anything. I was so wrong, it’s an amazing little waffle maker!! Can cook almost anything on it! I have cooked eggs, waffles, and french toast.” — S. Peterson “I can’t stop cramming random stuff into my tiny waffle maker. YES! Tiny Eggo-sized waffles! Put anything into it- hashbrowns, tater tots, waffle mix, canned biscuits! Add nuts and berries and things! It even comes with a little recipe booklet! It fits in the palm of your hand, you could literally stuff it in the back of a drawer, but you won’t, because as soon as you get it everyone wants mini waffles for every meal. It heats up super fast and is a breeze to clean. If you’re making a whole mess of waffles, be sure to give it a quick spritz of nonstick spray every couple of waffles or so, so it doesn’t rend your delicious waffles asunder. Excellent value. Buy 10 of them and a food truck, you’ll be in business.” — Bryce Pierce “Seriously I love this thing more than my regular-sized waffle maker!! It makes waffles that are a tad smaller than Eggo waffles. They are a perfect size. My kids love that I am willing to make waffles in it on weekdays instead of just on weekends with my other one. So easy to use...no clean-up is necessary. The waffles come out perfectly every time, no spray needed! Almost thinking I should get another one...hmmmm. You will not be sorry with this little guy...a keeper!” — Thefabfive “Look, I’m not going to lie. I saw people waffling cheese and pickles on Tiktok using these little waffle makers and I had to have one. Does it waffle things? Yes. Is it easy to clean? Yes. Is it cute as a button? Also yes! I have the one with little rainbows on it and it’s just super cute. As far as things that Tiktok made me buy goes... this is 100% a great appliance!” — Melissa