A man who pleaded guilty to planning a kidnapping of Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer explained the scheme to jurors Wednesday, taking them through training, secret messages and a late night trip to her weekend home to see how a group of extremists could pull it off before the 2020 election. Ty Garbin talked about building a “shoot house” with wood, tarps and scrap materials to resemble Whitmer’s home so the men could practice an eventual assault in Elk Rapids. The goal was “to kidnap the governor,” Garbin told a prosecutor. “There was no question in your mind that everybody knew?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Nils Kessler asked. “No question,” Garbin said. Garbin, 26, is a critical witness for prosecutors in the trial of four men charged with conspiracy: Adam Fox, Barry Croft Jr., Daniel Harris and Brandon Caserta. FBI agents and an informant have so far provided details. But Garbin’s testimony comes from someone who pleaded guilty and said he was a willing participant in the plan to snatch Whitmer in retaliation for her COVID-19 restrictions during the early months of the pandemic. Garbin said he invited the group to his property in Luther, Michigan, to train for a violent assault on Whitmer’s vacation home. He put together a crude structure so the men could practice going in and out of tight spaces. “I was kind of ballparking it,” Garbin said of the layout. “Every house had a front door. Every house had a living room. Every house had a hallway. Every house had a back door.” In September 2020, Garbin, Fox, Croft and others traveled to Elk Rapids in three vehicles for night surveillance of Whitmer’s property. Garbin said his job was to find the house and flash a light to others at a boat launch. Garbin, an airplane mechanic, began cooperating with prosecutors after the group was arrested in October 2020. He testified to the grand jury that indicted the men, and he was rewarded with a relatively light six-year prison sentence, a term that could be reduced after the trial. “I am truly sorry,” Garbin said last August. In court Wednesday, Garbin explained that he joined a militia, the Wolverine Watchmen, to find people who believed in limited government — “I’m not a fan of taxes” — and supported gun rights. In June 2020, he said he met Fox at a pro-gun rally at the Michigan Capitol, a connection that would put him on a path to target Whitmer. Whitmer rarely talks publicly about the case, though she referred to “surprises” during her term that seem like “something out of fiction” when she filed for reelection on March 17. She has blamed former President Donald Trump for fomenting anger over coronavirus restrictions and refusing to condemn right-wing extremists like those charged in the case. Whitmer has said Trump was complicit in the Jan. 6 Capitol riot. ___ Find AP’s full coverage of the Whitmer kidnap plot trial at: https://apnews.com/hub/whitmer-kidnap-plot-trial ___ White reported from Detroit.