I hate what happened Sunday. I hate that what happened Sunday happened. I hate that Sunday was a violent display of opulence. I hate that no one cared. I hate that everyone cared. I hate that I watched it, and then watched it again, and then slowed it down because I couldn’t believe that it’d happened. I hate that I joined the voices on social media. I hate that my first response was to joke about it. And as much as I hate the hate that hate created, I hate us. All of us. I hate everything. I hate Chris Rock and his underwhelming, highly offensive joke. I hate Will Smith for dragging us into this. I hate everyone’s hot take except for this one. I hate hot takes. I refused to write a hot take because I knew everyone was going to have a hot take. This is not a hot take. It’s a hate take. I hate the images. I hate the conversations. I hate the academy. I hate Roman Polanski. I hate the misdirection tweets — you know, the ones that start talking about Sunday only to remind us that Antarctica is melting or that Ukraine is at war with Russia. I hate that we can multitask. So we never forget that Antarctica is melting or that the people of Ukraine are suffering. But mostly, I hate the celebrities that have joined teams. Team Will or Team Chris. I hate teams. I hate Amy Schumer and her Karen-esque response. I hate that it involved her “being triggered” and “traumatized” or something days after. I hate how this had nothing to do with her, and yet, here we are. I hate that this was an actual televised Black-on-Black crime. I hate that white people now feel comfortable speaking about Black folks’ business. I hate Diddy for lying. I hate that Amanda Seales tweeted this, and then was called out for this. I hate that at one point I thought Tom Segura was a funny comedian, and then Sunday happened and he felt real comfortable calling Jada Pinkett-Smith a “bald-headed bitch.” I hate that Black women never feel protected. I hate that they have to put up with this. I hate that being starved for protection made some feel like Sunday was called for. It was not, and I hate that for Black women. I hate Joe Rogan. He’s got nothing to do with this, but I hate him, too. Wait, yes he does because he had a hot take and I didn’t read it but I’m sure I hate it. I hate Red Table Talks. We are probably going to have a Red Table Talk. We are definitely going to have a Red Table Talk. I hate that for us. I hate the access we have to celebrities. I hate that they can send out whatever they feel in real time. I hate that Sunday happened and now, I hate Zoe Kravitz. I hate that Black Twitter had CVS receipts for the entire Kravitz family. I hate everyone in the Kravitz family besides Lisa Bonet. I will not hate Lisa Bonet. I hate “toxic masculinity” and “respectability politics.” I hate camps. I hate that I can’t decide which camp I’m in. I hate Kareem Abdul-Jabbar’s take. Wait, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar had a take? I really hate that. I hate OJ Simpson. I hate Raven-Symoné. I hate Jim Carrey. I hate Sophia Bush. Who on earth is Sophia Bush? I don’t know, but I hate her. I hate that everyone is a tough guy, or a psychologist, or a cop, or an apologist. There’s only one celeb who gets me, and that’s Daniel Radcliffe (aka Harry Potter), who — much like me — hates all these celebs and their crappy takes too. I once loved the openness of the Smith family. Now I hate it. I hate entanglements, both as a word and as a song. I don’t hate August Alsina. I hate that he came to the Smiths for help. I hate that Jada took advantage of that situation. I hate that we don’t talk about that. I hate that Red Table Talk. The one where Will Smith cried. I hate that everyone made fun of him for it. I hate that we saw the other Will Smith because of it. I hate that Jada didn’t get to stick up for herself. I hate the way Will walked back to his seat. I hate that people want to see another Black man arrested. I hate that they might not be wrong. I hate that this is all far from over. I hate it all. I hate that for us.