Taylor Hawkins, the ferocious drummer for the iconic Foo Fighters rock band, has died at age 50, according to a statement from the band. No cause of death has been released, and no other details were immediately available. The Foo Fighters were on tour in South America and were scheduled to play in Bogotá, Colombia, on Friday night at the Festival Estéreo Picnic when Hawkins’ death was announced. The band has canceled its appearance at the festival. “The Foo Fighters family is devastated by the tragic and untimely loss of our beloved Taylor Hawkins,” said a statement from the band. “His musical spirit and infectious laughter will live on with all of us forever.” Hawkins had played with the Foo Fighters since 1997 alongside frontman and founder of the band Dave Grohl, who was the drummer for Nirvana before Kurt Cobain’s death in 1994. Prior to joining the Foo Fighters, Hawkins performed with Alanis Morissette and can be heard on her chart-topping 1995 album, “Jagged Little Pill.” He also appeared in music videos for the singer’s hit singles “You Oughta Know” and “You Learn.” Hawkins was the Foo Fighters’ drummer beginning with the band’s third album, “There Is Nothing Left to Lose,” released in 1999, and performed in the group’s next seven albums. Bassist Nate Mendel said last year in an interview with Rolling Stone that Hawkins came into a band that was “pretty scrappy, in general, and kind of acclimated to that for a second, and then was like, ‘Hang on a second, what if we become good?’” Grohl called Hawkins his “best friend and partner in crime” in his 2021 autobiography, “The Storyteller: Tales of Life and Music.” Hawkins’ death quickly drew heartfelt tributes from scores of musicians. Fans were devastated. Travis Barker recalled Hawkins’ encouragement when he was struggling in Laguna Beach. “I thought you were crazy, but you gave me so much hope and determination,” Barker wrote on Instagram. “To say I’ll miss you, my friend, isn’t enough,” he added. “Til the next time we talk drums and smoke in the boys room ... Rest in Peace.” Rage Against the Machine frontman Tom Morello hailed Hawkins’ “unstoppable rock power.” Ozzy Osbourne honored him as “truly a great person and an amazing musician.” Paul Stanley of Kiss said he was “speechless and gutted” by the news. The Foo Fighters were inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in 2021, and have won 12 Grammy Awards. Hawkins is survived by his wife, Alison, and their three children. The Foo Fighters’ final performance with Hawkins was last Sunday at Lollapalooza in Argentina, reported Rolling Stone. The video of it can be seen up top at the start of the article.