Law enforcement officers are still searching for a suspect after multiple people were wounded, some of them shot, on a New York City subway train during the Tuesday morning rush hour. Several photographs posted to social media showed a bloody scene, with people lying on the subway platform and tending to wounds at the 36th Street station in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Green-colored smoke appeared to billow from a train car that pulled into the station in video posted online. New York City Police Commissioner Keechant Sewell said at an afternoon press conference that the suspect, a man in a green vest and gray hoodie, donned a gas mask as a Manhattan-bound N train waited to enter the 36th Street station. The suspect deployed at least one gas canister, Sewell said, before opening fire on people aboard the train and on the platform. Ten people were shot, with five in critical but stable condition, officials said. Three area hospitals told HuffPost they were treating a total of 16 people. NYU Langone Health said eight people had been brought in with injuries, and New York Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Hospital said it had received three patients. Maimonides Medical Center said it had received five victims with injuries that weren’t life-threatening; three were treated for smoke inhalation and two for gunshot wounds. A gun was recovered at the train station following the incident, both CNN and The New York Post reported, citing police sources. Sources told CBS New York and The New York Daily News that the firearm was a pistol. Other items, including a hatchet, fireworks, pepper spray, extra ammunition and two gas canisters, were also found, according to the Post. It was not immediately clear if the items belonged to the suspect. The incident is not being investigated as terrorism, Sewell said, and the suspect’s motivation is unknown. “We’re not ruling anything out,” she added. The suspect was wearing what looked like construction attire and a gas mask, officials said. Authorities didn’t immediately release surveillance images showing the person. The New York City Fire Department initially said “several undetonated devices” had been found at the scene, but the New York City Police Department clarified later that there were “NO active explosive devices.” Sewell reiterated Tuesday afternoon that there were no known explosives on the subway system. Photographer Derek French captured the chaotic scene of riders lying on the subway platform near pools of blood. He said he’d just gotten onto an R train when one of the victims ran to his subway car. “I saw the victims laying down with two citizens treating them,” French told HuffPost. “All [victims] were talking, but I’d say in a state of shock.” He said citizens trying to offer medical care didn’t have much on them to help, so “it was a relief” to hear a first responder say the victims were expected to survive. “Myself and a few other citizens just wanted to help out as best we could for those affected by rendering medical aid until paramedics arrived,” French said. Juliana Fonda, a WNYC audio engineer, told Gothamist that she was riding an N train when she heard shots fired and saw smoke filling the next car. “The reaction of the passengers was terrifying because they were trying to get away from something that was happening in the back of the train,” Fonda said. “None of us in the front of the train knew what was going on.” The doors between cars were locked, Fonda said, and people were “pounding” on the door to her car trying to escape. Another eyewitness, Yav Montano, told CNN that he had heard what he thought were fireworks on an N train as it slowly pulled into the station. “There was one gentleman on the train using all of his strength to try to open that door, and he ended up opening it, but the other door to get into the other car was locked,” Montano said. People on the other side who tried to help open the door were unsuccessful. MTA Chair Janno Lieber applauded the quick actions of passersby. “On 9/11, I stood on 4th Avenue and watched New Yorkers come back from that tragedy,” Lieber said during a press conference. “I watched New Yorkers help each other, store keepers walk out and give people water. That was the same thing we saw on the platform today. We saw New Yorkers in a difficult situation in an emergency helping each other, that’s the subway riders, that’s who New Yorkers are.” “New Yorkers are incredibly resilient,” he added. Students and staff at nearby schools were sheltering in place amid the investigation. A spokesperson for New York City Mayor Eric Adams said the mayor continues to receive updates on the situation. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said President Joe Biden has also been briefed. “We are sick and tired of reading headlines about crime,” New York Gov. Kathy Hochul (D) said at the news conference with other federal, state and city officials. NYPD officials said last week that shootings across the city in the first three months of the year were higher than the same period a year ago. Crime was a major issue during last fall’s mayoral race; centrist Democrat Adams pledged not to slash police budgets amid a progressive push for police reform. Since becoming mayor, Adams has reintroduced a specialized plainclothes unit with past links to police brutality. Sebastian Murdock contributed to this report.