Olivia Wilde’s presentation at CinemaCon on Tuesday night turned out to be a family affair ― but not in a good way. The director and actor was onstage at Caesar’s Palace in Las Vegas discussing “Don’t Worry Darling,” her upcoming thriller starring Harry Styles and Florence Pugh, when an unidentified person came up front, placed a manila envelope on the stage and slid it toward her, according to The Hollywood Reporter. As she picked up the envelope, Wilde asked, “Is this for me?” Turns out it was. Deadline is reporting that the mystery envelope, which was marked “personal and confidential,” held custody papers from actor Jason Sudeikis, Wilde’s ex-boyfriend and the father of her two children. Despite the awkward situation, witnesses said Wilde handled the situation like a pro and continued to talk up her film to the audience, which was mostly theater exhibitors. It is unknown how the person serving the papers got into the event, but CinemaCon official Mitch Neuhauser told Variety that security protocols are going to be reevaluated in light of the incident. An unnamed representative of Sudeikis told HuffPost that the papers were drawn up to “establish jurisdiction relating to the children of Ms. Wilde and Mr. Sudeikis,” but said the actor had nothing to do with how and when the papers were served. ″Mr. Sudeikis had no prior knowledge of the time or place that the envelope would have been delivered as this would solely be up to the process service company involved and he would never condone her being served in such an inappropriate manner,” the representative said in a statement Wednesday. Wilde and Sudeikis were together for nine years before splitting at the beginning of 2020. They share two children: son Otis, 6, and daughter Daisy, 4. Sudeikis told GQ last July that figuring out exactly what went wrong in the relationship was going to take him a while. “I’ll have a better understanding of why in a year,” Sudeikis said. “And an even better one in two, and an even greater one in five, and it’ll go from being, you know, a book of my life to becoming a chapter to a paragraph to a line to a word to a doodle.”