As the weather changes and spring approaches, dermatologists recommend adjusting our skin care routines depending on the seasons. Since spring and summer weather is likely to be more humid, “your skin tends to be more oily, whereas in the winter when it’s very cold, it tends to be more dry and sensitive,” explained Dr. Gary Goldenberg, a board-certified dermatologist and founder of Goldenberg Dermatology in New York. “Hence, having the exact same skin care routine through the year doesn’t work for everyone.” During warmer weather, as a rule of thumb, experts recommend a lightweight cleanser, a light moisturizer and a broad-spectrum sunscreen for every skin type. “In spring and summer, a much lighter humectant such as hyaluronic acid can be used instead of heavier winter creams,” said Dr. Stacy Chimento, a board-certified dermatologist at Riverchase Dermatology in Florida. “Even sunscreen thickness can be adjusted based on the change in seasons.” “Although I advise everyone to wear sunscreen year-round, it’s especially important to wear it in the spring, summer and early fall months as we spend more time outdoors and the sun is stronger,” Goldenberg said. It’s also likely you sweat more as the weather heats up, which means you’ll need to cleanse and exfoliate more frequently. “Using an exfoliant to clean the oil and debris off so you don’t break out with acne” is important, explained Dr. Richard Bottiglione, a board-certified dermatologist and founder of Dermatologist’s Choice Skincare in Arizona. “You should clean your face after walking and working out, so the sweat and oils don’t clog your pores.” Each person’s skin needs will be different, but Goldenberg recommends that people who have sensitive skin or eczema “moisturize more (or) for a longer period of time into the spring and summer months.” The following morning routines serve as general guidance, but always consult your dermatologist before making any significant changes to your regimen. Goldenberg’s proposed morning routines Goldenberg is a fan of the Cetaphil and CeraVe lines, as they contain ceramides, which support the skin’s barrier without heavy oils that can cause breakouts. Similarly, Vanicream products are hypoallergenic and will be suitable for those with sensitive skin. Morning routine for combination/acne-prone skin: Cleanser: CeraVe Acne Foaming Cream Cleanser   Moisturizer: La Roche-Posay Effaclar Mat Daily Face Moisturizer for Oily Skin   Sunscreen: ISDIN Eryfotona Actinica SPF 50+ or CeraVe AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion SPF 30 Morning routine for dry/dehydrated skin: Cleanser: Cetaphil Gentle Skin Cleanser   Moisturizer: Cetaphil Daily Oil-Free Hydrating Lotion   Sunscreen:  ISDIN Eryfotona Actinica SPF 50+ or CeraVe AM Moisturizing Lotion SPF 30 Morning routine for balanced/normal skin: Cleanser: CeraVe Foaming Facial Cleanser   Moisturizer with sunscreen: CeraVe AM Facial Moisturizing Lotion SPF 30 Morning routine for sensitive/sensitized skin: Cleanser: Vanicream Gentle Facial Cleanser   Moisturizer: Vanicream Facial Moisturizer   Sunscreen: MDSolarSciences Mineral Crème SPF 50 Chimento’s proposed morning routines Chimento explained that people with oily skin will likely notice an increase in oil production during spring and summer, so a lighter moisturizer is preferable. “Using a gentle exfoliator, perhaps in a cleanser form, is beneficial so that you can shed any rough dry skin that accumulated during the winter months,” Chimento told HuffPost. She also recommends a non-comedogenic sunscreen (i.e., one that won’t block pores), if your skin is oily. For dry or irritated skin, cleansers and cream with ceramides, lipids and fatty acids will work well. You can also add antioxidant serums, which are reparative and help protect against environmental aggressors, like pollution. For sensitive or sensitized skin, focus on soothing ingredients like vitamin E, niacinamide, bisabolol, aloe vera, soy and azelaic acid. “If one loves to use retinol, gentle versions should be used,” Chimento advised. Morning routine for combination/acne-prone skin: Cleanser: Vichy Normaderm Phytoaction Daily Deep Cleansing Gel with Salicylic Acid   Moisturizer: Neutrogena Hydro Boost Water Gel or Murad Skin Perfecting Lotion   Sunscreen: EltaMD UV Clear Broad-Spectrum SPF 46 or Revision Skincare Intellishade Matte Tinted Moisturizer SPF 45 Morning routine for dry/dehydrated skin: Cleanser: La Roche-Posay Toleriane Hydrating Gentle Face Cleanser for Dry Skin   Moisturizer: SkinCeuticals Triple Lipid Restore 2:4:2   Sunscreen: Alastin HydraTint Pro Mineral Broad Spectrum SPF 36 Morning routine for balanced/normal skin: Cleanser: Vichy Pureté Thermale Fresh Cleansing Gel   Antioxidant Serum: SkinCeuticals C E Ferulic   Moisturizer: SkinBetter Trio Rebalancing Moisture Treatment   Sunscreen: Alastin HydraTint Pro Mineral Broad Spectrum SPF 36 Morning routine for sensitive/sensitized skin: Cleanser: Aveeno Calm + Restore Nourishing Oat Cleanser   Moisturizer: Aveeno Calm + Restore Oat Gel Facial Moisturizer   Moisturizer: Alastin Ultra Light Moisturizer or La Roche-Posay Toleriane Double Repair Face Moisturizer with Niacinamide   Sunscreen: Avène Mineral Tinted Compact SPF 50 or SkinCeuticals Sheer Physical UV Defense SPF 50 HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Every item is independently selected by the HuffPost Shopping team. Prices and availability are subject to change.