Jennifer Lawrence is a new mom! The “Don’t Look Up” actor has welcomed her first child with her husband, Cooke Maroney, but details about the birth ― and the baby ― are being kept under wraps. Lawrence and Maroney decided against releasing information such as the child’s birthday, gender or name — and the child’s name may remain secret for a long time, according to Elle. “Every instinct in my body wants to protect their privacy for the rest of their lives, as much as I can,” Lawrence told Vanity Fair in November. “I don’t want anyone to feel welcome into their existence. And I feel like that just starts with not including them in this part of my work.” The couple was recently seen out for a walk with their newborn, People reports. A representative for the “Hunger Games” alum confirmed Lawrence’s pregnancy news to People magazine in September, but did not specify a due date. Lawrence had joked about her pregnancy during a stop on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” in December. Colbert asked what the Oscar winner had been up to after taking three years off from Hollywood and the spotlight, and Lawrence delivered a line that had the talk show host and audience in stitches. “I just had a ton of sex,” she said, laughing, as she looked at and motioned to her clearly pregnant self. Lawrence, and Maroney reportedly began seeing each other in the spring of 2018 and got engaged in 2019. The actor and the Gladstone Gallery director tied the knot the same year at a private, star-studded ceremony in Newport, Rhode Island. Lawrence’s famous friends ― Adele, Emma Stone, Amy Schumer and Kris Jenner ― were in attendance, according to People. Lawrence previously spoke about her engagement and gushed that Maroney is “the greatest person I’ve ever met” on Catt Sadler’s “Naked With Catt Sadler” podcast in June 2019. “He’s my best friend. I want to legally bind him to me forever,” she quipped. “And fortunately the paperwork exists for such a thing. You find your favorite person on the planet and you’re like, ‘You can’t leave!’”