At least six people were killed and others transferred to the hospital after a shooting that interrupted a Fourth of July parade in an Illinois town, police said Monday. The town of Highland Park — which is about 25 miles north of Chicago and has approximately 30,000 residents — is asking people to shelter in place because the shooter is still at large hours after the shooting. Police have named a person of interest in the shooting: 22-year-old Robert E. Crimo III, who was last seen driving a Honda Fit. Five of the six shooting victims died at the parade, and a sixth died at the hospital, WGN-TV reported. Twenty-six people were rushed to NorthShore hospital, including several children. Nearly all of them were treated for gunshot wounds, and 19 of them, ranging from ages eight to 85, have been released. Police recovered a rifle at the scene, according to Chris Covelli, a spokesperson for Lake County Major Crime Task Force. He said the shooting appeared to be “completely random.” People fled the parade route in panic as gunshots rang out at 10:14 a.m. local time, abandoning chairs, coolers and baby strollers. Video on social media showed a band on a float continuing to play as people ran past in fear, clutching their children. The parade, with its floats and marching bands, was part of a full day of planned Fourth of July events. It’s a longstanding tradition in Highland Park, an affluent town that’s been used a setting for films like “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” and “Risky Business.” Witnesses told WGN  about the confusion that ensued when they heard loud bangs. Some people thought the sound was fireworks. Highland Park resident Debbie Glickman, who was on a parade float at the time, told The Associated Press, “People started saying: ‘There’s a shooter, there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter.’ So we just ran. We just ran. It’s like mass chaos down there.” Witness Alexander Sandoval told WGN that he put his son in a dumpster for safety while he went back to find the rest of his family. “When I went back, there was people shot on the ground, there was a little boy that was being carried away, probably 6 to 8 years old.” “That was the worst part of all of this — being a father, hiding your children, seeing a little boy carried away. I can’t imagine what that family is going through right now,” he said. Highland Park Mayor Nancy Rotering said  the Fourth Fest celebration, scheduled to start at noon, was canceled. Other nearby suburbs such as Evanston, Skokie, Deerfield, Glencoe, Winnetka and Morton Grove canceled their Fourth of July events.f Police from Lake County and Illinois State Police also responded to the incident. Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker (D) left a Fourth of July event at Hyde Park in Chicago when he heard about the shooting. “There are no words for the kind of monster who lies in wait and fires into a crowd of families with children celebrating a holiday with their community,” Pritzker wrote in a statement. “I will stand firm with llinoisans and Americans: we must — and we will — end this plague of gun violence.” This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.