Unbothered and on vacation, Jennifer Garner is doing just fine after ex-husband Ben Affleck tied the knot with Jennifer Lopez over the weekend. While Bennifer (original flavor) sent the internet into a nostalgic tailspin after getting married at a late-night Las Vegas drive-through chapel on Saturday, the “Alias” alum was flying high above any potential drama. Garner apparently spent a serene weekend away taking in the sights of Lake Tahoe, California, according to her Instagram activity. On Sunday, the actor shared a video of her feet dangling above the lake as she paraglided through the sky and took in the scenery. She then posted a photo of herself beaming while biking near the water. The Golden Globe winner was married to Affleck for a decade before the two announced their separation in June 2015. The former couple wed in 2005, not long after Affleck called off his first engagement to Lopez. Garner and Affleck share three children together: Violet, 16, Seraphina, 13, and Samuel, 10. It’s unclear whether Affleck’s kids attended the surprise wedding with Lopez, who revealed in photos from the event that her 14-year-old twins Emme and Max with ex-husband Marc Anthony were present. An unnamed source told E! News, however, that the couple each brought along one of their kids to the small ceremony. “We did it,” the singer wrote in her newsletter announcing their nuptials. “Love is beautiful. Love is kind. And it turns out love is patient. Twenty years patient. Exactly what we wanted. Last night we flew to Vegas, stood in line for a license with four other couples, all making the same journey to the wedding capital of the world.” “They were right when they said, ‘all you need is love.’ We are so grateful to have that in abundance, a new wonderful family of five amazing children and a life that we have never had more reason to look forward to,” she added. Garner, meanwhile, has embarked on a new romance since splitting with Affleck. She’s been dating businessman John Miller on and off since 2018 and was photographed with him just last month. The actor is currently filming the upcoming Apple TV+ thriller miniseries “The Last Thing He Told Me,” which is based off the best-selling novel of the same name. Produced by Reese Witherspoon, Garner stars in the project alongside “Game of Thrones” alum Nikolaj Coster-Waldau and “Senior Year” star Angourie Rice.