Among the many differences between “Thor: Love & Thunder” co-stars Chris Hemsworth and Natalie Portman (an Oscar trophy, a full 12 inches of height, an appearance in Gal Gadot’s “Imagine” video), perhaps the most notable is their very different diets. Portman, who makes her return to the Marvel Cinematic Universe in the new sequel as Dr. Jane Foster, has been a vegan and vegetarian for most of her life, while Hemsworth is decidedly not. To respect his co-star on the day the two shared a kissing scene, the Australian actor, who consumes 10 meat-heavy meals a day to look like, well, that, switched up his breakfast routine. “He’s really nice,” Portman told the U.K.’s Capital FM about Hemsworth. “The day we had a kiss scene, he didn’t eat meat that morning because I’m vegan. And he eats meat like every half hour. Like, that was so thoughtful.” “That’s not something I’m angry about or care about, but he was just being thoughtful,” she added. “He’s just a very nice person.” Though Portman didn’t insist that Hemsworth switch up his regimen for the scene, co-star Tessa Thompson said she was surprised he “could go without eating meat.” “He’s just like eating bison in the morning,” Thompson, who portrays Valkyrie in the Taika Waititi-directed blockbuster noted. “That’s so sweet.” To maintain his god bod, Hemsworth takes in around 4,500 calories a day and commits to an intense and highly specialized exercise routine, his trainer Luke Zocchi recently revealed in an Instagram post. “What I go by is eat till you feel sick,” Hemsworth said of his diet in the video, with Zocchi joking that working with the actor is like “training a thoroughbred horse.” Portman also had to bulk up for her role in “Thor: Love & Thunder” as her character transforms into a full-fledged superhero in her own right after becoming worthy of wielding the enchanted hammer Mjölnir. “It’s pretty unusual and wonderful to be tasked with getting bigger as a woman,” said Portman, who spent 10 months getting into Marvel shape for the film, told The Sunday Times in a recent interview. “Most of the body transformations we’re asked to make are to be as small as possible, and there’s an emotional and sociological correlate to that,” she added. “I turned 40 while making the movie, and it was an incredible point in my life to say, ‘You’re going to be the fittest, strongest version of yourself.’”