Come summer, there’s nothing better than an outdoor gathering and a crisp drink that cuts the heat and makes you say “ahhh.” I’m talking a fruity, refreshing and possibly even boozy beverage that quenches your thirst and satisfies your sweet tooth at a midday barbecue or a poolside lounge session. If this scenario sounds like a dream to you, may I suggest transforming a watermelon, the unofficial fruit of summer, into your very own drink dispenser?  Kristen Aiken, HuffPost’s Head of Life and resident expert in all things food and beverage, said that thanks to a cleverly designed spout and coring tool, transforming a watermelon into a keg becomes an eye-catching party trick that can be executed with ease. “When people walk in and see a giant watermelon sitting on the counter with a tap in the side of it, they can’t help but ooh and ahh and wonder what’s inside,” she said.  If you think this looks more trouble than it’s worth, Aiken insisted that’s part of the appeal: relatively low effort, big pay off.  “You only have to have the tiniest bit of dexterity to make it work,” she said. According to Aiken, If you’ve ever carved a pumpkin for Halloween, you’re already equipped with the required set of skills to make your watermelon keg dreams a reality. The process involves carving out the juicy innards of your melon until the whites of the rind are visible. Make sure to set aside the fruit chunks, because those will be essential to the final product. After that, you can make a hole in the side of the melon using the coring component, then screw in the tap and you’re ready to serve! “Here’s what I like to fill it with,” Aiken said. “For kids, I put the scooped-out watermelon in a blender with some lemonade, and then pour it back into the top of the watermelon keg and pop the top back on. For adults, obviously I do a spiked version of that, with whatever kind of liquor you like.” It’s important that the consistency of your liquid is thin enough to flow out through the tap; a smoothie-like texture has the potential to clog the valve. It’s also a good idea to slice a small section off the base of your melon so that it can sit flat on a surface without tipping over.  But why stop at watermelon? Enjoy spiced apple cider in pumpkins for Halloween, frothy Piña Coladas served out of a pineapple or top up your melon with your favorite seltzer of choice.  “I spent my entire life savings on culinary school, but making a watermelon keg is one of my most priceless skills,” Aiken said.  Learn more about the particular model we mentioned in the slide below, plus see what other people had to say about this party-pleasing gadget. If you’re not entirely convinced that this is the keg for you, we also wrangled up a couple of other options available.  HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Every item is independently selected by the HuffPost Shopping team. Prices and availability are subject to change. Promising reviews for the Final Touch tapping kit: “Nice conversation piece. Made for our summer activities. The faucet attached well to the watermelon and produced a tight and [leakproof] seal on the fruit. Just blend the pulp, pass the blended juice into a colander to remove pieces that can clog the faucet and enjoy a refreshing drink.” ― Modesto Aguayo ″Our daughter turned 40 in July. We gave her a huge 40th party. The watermelon keg was a HUGE success. I am so happy I saw it in time to have it for the party. Some people thought that the watermelon was not real that’s how good it looked. Loved it, we plan to use it a lot it’s so much fun.” ― Amazon customer “Had a ton of fun with this on 4th of July. Made watermelon margaritas - everyone was impressed. Can’t wait to use it again!” ― Robin Johnson “Worked really well - exactly as advertised. It’s not metal, so don’t expect it to be super sturdy, but it’s still plenty strong. The tap is big enough for blended watermelon to pour through. If you do make watermelon daiquiris I’d recommend straining out the pulp though. I used this for about 10 hours without any issues except for two times when it got clogged and we had to use pressurized air to clear it. Not a big deal, but with the pulp strained out this would work perfectly.” ― Richard W. Mcrae