The FBI opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting at a hair salon in Dallas last week amid reports the attack may be linked to two other shootings targeting Asian-owned businesses in the area. Dallas police said early Tuesday a suspect has been arrested in connection with the shooting of three Korean American women on May 11. The shooting took place at Hair World Salon, which sits in a predominantly Korean business area, when an unknown gunman stopped his vehicle near the salon, entered the building and shouted something unintelligible. He then opened fire, injuring the women. All were transported to area hospitals with non-life-threatening injuries. The suspect was described as a Black man who was driving a dark-colored or maroon minivan. Dallas Police Chief Eddie García will release further information on the arrest later Tuesday, according to the Dallas police Twitter account. A Korean American women who was shot during the attack said she was nervous about her ability to work in the future after she was shot three times in the arm. “We’re very nervous. We’re very tired,” the woman, who did not reveal her identity, said, per The Dallas Morning News. “This happened to us for no reason.” The paper noted the woman handed police a plastic bag after she spoke, filled with bullets she found while cleaning up the salon after the shooting. Dallas Police Chief García said last week authorities believe the attack is connected to two other incidents targeting the Asian American community in Dallas. Police pointed to reports that a red minivan similar to that seen near the hair salon drove past a strip mall on April 2 near the Hair World Salon. Shots were fired, but no one was injured at the time. On Tuesday last week, a similar vehicle drove past an Asian-run business also in Dallas, firing shots into the building. No one was injured in that attack. “Hate has no place in this city,” García said at a town hall event on Monday in Dallas. “I cannot wait to stand before you and announce that we’ve made an arrest.” This story has been updated with the suspect’s arrest.