The biggest night in fashion is back ... again! The Met Gala is here for 2022 — just eight short months after we kinda sorta saw Kim Kardashian in her infamous all-black look at the Met Gala in 2021. Vogue’s annual fashion extravaganza at the Metropolitan Museum of Art has traditionally taken place during the first Monday in May. But thanks to COVID, last year’s fashion fete got bumped from spring to September. So if you thought you were partaking in the great pandemic tradition of questioning your sense of time, don’t worry. You’re fine. But if you’re wondering about the theme of Monday night’s event, be prepared to be perplexed once more. The theme this year is “In America: An Anthology of Fashion,” which is a sequel to last year’s theme, “In America: A Lexicon of Fashion.” People described the dress code as white-tie with an emphasis on “Gilded Glamour.” The Gilded Age was a tumultuous period between the Civil War and the turn of the 20th century that was known for robber barons, drama and grandeur. It was also a time of social inequality, in which a small population of elite folks enjoyed oodles of wealth. Think: John D. Rockefeller, Cornelius Vanderbilt and J.P. Morgan — and Bertha Russell (Carrie Coon) and her fabulous, over-the-top hats in HBO’s “The Gilded Age.” There weren’t a ton of hats at the 2022 Met Gala, but there were plenty of capes, bodices and dramatic colors, plus a pirate of two (we’re looking at you, Shawn Mendes and Lenny Kravitz) and what appeared to be, uh, gilded pasties (see: Cara Delevingne). Kim Kardashian’s nod to America of yore was sporting the iconic dress Marilyn Monroe wore to sing “Happy Birthday” to President John F. Kennedy. The reality star didn’t quite nail Monroe’s signature hairdo, opting instead for a slicked-back look. Sadly, both Zendaya and Rhianna kept true to their words and didn’t show up. But, hey, plenty of other celebrities made an appearance in great, not-so-great and completely whacky outfits, so scroll on down and enjoy! Pete Davidson and Kim Kardashian Blake Lively Kylie Jenner Khloé Kardashian Fredrik Robertsson Alessandro Michele and Jared Leto Cara Delevingne Gabrielle Union and Dwyane Wade Glenn Close Sarah Jessica Parker Lizzo Billie Eilish Gigi Hadid Janelle Monáe Sebastian Stan Tessa Thompson Jessica Chastain SZA Megan Thee Stallion Claire Danes Teyana Taylor Kid Cudi David Harbour and Lily Allen Ariana DeBose Shawn Mendes Camila Cabello Emily Ratajkowski Lena Waithe Kodi Smit-McPhee Alicia Keys Nicola Coughlan Chloe Bailey Lenny Kravitz Normani Rachel Brosnahan Hillary Clinton Joe Jonas and Sophie Turner Leslie Odom Jr. Vanessa Hudgens Dakota Johnson Danai Gurira Chloe Fineman Amy Schumer Mindy Kaling Michelle Yeoh Kacey Musgraves Chloe Kim Maude Apatow Katy Perry Anna Wintour Tom Ford Chloë Grace Moretz Vanessa Nadal and Lin-Manuel Miranda Venus Williams Kaia Gerber and Austin Butler La La Anthony